# Lecture 8： Parallelism 2

生成时间: 2026-03-10 23:14:46

---

## 段落 1

**英文**: This is week two of the systems lecture where we try to leverage the most out of the hard where we have to make models train faster. And last week we talked about parallelism within a single GPU and this week we're talking about parallelism across multiple GPUs. So this is a picture you should have in your head. So we have a bunch of nodes, these are basically computers that have, each have a number of GPUs, usually eight. And within each GPU there's a bunch of streaming multiprocessors or SMs, which actually do the. work. And you see that in green here are essentially the memory and the communication. So within each SM you have a very small L1 cache. And on a GPU you have, I bandwidth memory, HBM which is bigger. And then you have these links that connect the different GPUs.

## 段落 2

**英文**: So the way to think about it is that compute has to happen within the SM on these ALUs. And a compute needs inputs and needs to write outputs. And generally the inputs and outputs can be relatively far. If you're lucky they're on the L1 cache. If you're say less unlucky they're in HBM. And now this week we're talking about multi GPU and multi node training where the data that you might need might be across on another GPU. So the name of the game is how do you structure all your computation to avoid data transfer bottlenecks? Because we want to remember to keep the arithmetic intensity high. We want to saturate our GPUs, make them go hum along. And generally data transfer is going to be a lot slower. So we have to, that's going to be the bottleneck.

## 段落 3

**英文**: So last week we saw a bunch of different techniques to try to do that within a GPU, including fusion and tiling. So the idea basically is that instead of reading and writing from HBM you can load into L1 cache or I guess shared memory, which is using the same type of, you know, has the same speed. And just work there on your local scratch pad and then write out to HBM only judiciously. And this week we started looking at communication across GPUs and nodes where we have to replicate and shard our models and parameters and optimizer states. And there it's the way we do that will determine the cost. So here's a kind of, I'm taking a little bit of liberty to put everything in kind of one hierarchy you can think from small fast to big slow. So the smallest and fastest is on a single node single GPU you have L1 cache. That's extremely fast but very small. And then you have HBM on a single GPU and then between GPUs on the same node we have. MV link and then finally we have MV switch.

## 段落 4

**英文**: Of course this is all in the Nvidia ecosystem. So the idea is that many of the core concepts of minimizing data transfer are really the same but now the mechanics are a bit different because L1 behaves differently than these kind of MV switches. So this lecture is going to be mostly about concretizing the concepts from the lecture in code. There's going to be a few new things but Totsu did an excellent job of giving you an overview. of all the different types of parallelism. I'm going to try to anchor it in the code so we can more deeply understand what's going on. And then we're going to have, I'm going to refer to this standard out file here which is the output of running this lecture. There were some minor issues I'll spare you of where if you have multi processing then this framework doesn't quite work. Okay so this lecture has two parts one in part one. We're going to look at the building blocks collective operations which we discussed last time.

## 段落 5

**英文**: How this is implemented in Nikol and PyTorch and then we're going to do some benchmarking. And then in part two we're going to look at actually distributed training, data, tensor and pipeline parallelism. Okay so let's start with collective operations. So collective operations are these primitives that are used generally for distributed programming and collective means that you have many nodes. These are actually quite old from at least the 80s in the parallel programming literature. And generally they provide a better abstraction than trying to manage the point to point communication yourself. So these are really tried and true primitives that have stood the test of time. So bit of terminology. So world size refers essentially to a number of devices for example four and the rank sort of confusingly if you're used to kind of linear algebra is actually just refers to device. So we have rank zero, rank one, rank two and rank three if you have four devices.

## 段落 6

**英文**: Okay so the collective operations are as follows. So starting from your broadcast the idea is you have t zero on one of the ranks and you just want to put it on all the other ranks or all ranks. Okay so that's very straightforward. Scatter is similar but you have four values and you want to put each of the values on different ranks. So each of the ranks get different values not the same value. Scatter is sort of the inverse of scatter where you have each rank having a different value. and then you bring them all together onto one rank. You know reduce is the same as gather except for instead of concatenating you add them. All gather is the same as gather except for you just do it for all the destinations. Gather was just rank zero or you know rank one or rank two or any individual rank all gather is you do it for all of them.

## 段落 7

**英文**: And then finally reduce scatter you'll find a good picture of this. So I'm reusing the one from from last time is like reduce where you take a bunch of different values and you you know add them or perform other commutative operation on them and put. it on one rank but like scatter you're going to be putting different pieces of the vector or tensor on different ranks. Okay and remember that all reduce is equivalent to reduce plus all gather. So the way to remember this terminology is as follows because it can kind of confusing like which ones all gather which ones reduce scatter is that reduce just means you're performing some you know associative and commutative operation like some or min or max or average broadcast scatter is the inverse of gather and all just means all destination is all you know devices. Okay so it's a whole way this is a review from from last time. So any questions before I move on since we're going to build on these primitive so it's useful if everyone understands. Okay so now let's see how this is actually implemented in starting with a hardware. Okay so here's a classically what you know hardware for GPUs looks like so this is kind of in the home you have a computer I guess and you have your CPUs and generally you have your GPUs on one node that communicate of the PCI ebus and if you have to connect communicate between different nodes then this is all connected to Ethernet. So this is kind of typically how you know machines were built if you buy a GPU and you're.

## 段落 8

**英文**: for you know gaming or something this is kind of probably what your setup looks like. As we'll see this is kind of sub optimal because there's a lot of overhead when the data gets needs to get shipped from GPU to GPU it has to go through you know the kernel get copied into buffers and then go through this kind of a your transport over Ethernet and that introduces a lot of overhead. So what has happened in modern times with scientific computing and you know deep learning is that if you know that you're going to just string a bunch of GPUs together and do something together then we're just going to hook the GPUs up you know directly basically. So in the Nvidia ecosystem we have NV link that directly connects the GPUs therefore bypassing. the CPU you don't need to go through kind of the kernel of the host machine and across even across nodes we can connect the GPUs directly via NV switch so therefore we're bypassing Ethernet and because Ethernet was developed a long time ago clearly not for these type of applications. So NV switch just an NV link kind of skip all that and just optimize directly for the type of workloads that we're interested in. So if you look at H100s each node has or sorry each GPU has 18 NV links generation 4 coming out so that's gives you a total bandwidth of 900 gigabytes if you compare to these it's certainly a lot faster than PCIe and it's certainly way faster than you know Ethernet and in comparison if you think about the cost of just going from the SM2 you know. reading from high bandwidth memory that's still quite a bit faster by a factor of you know 4 or so and of course these numbers are constantly changing with a new black wells this number is like you know of like two or three times more I believe okay yeah so question is for the PCIe where how does the data get you know transferred I think it has to still go through the CPU was there another question and the PCIe it was I mean it's developed for you know things like other things are connected to it as well like your sound card or your SSD hard drive so it's not really it's for like a general purpose you know bus for communication of devices yeah yeah yeah so question is NV link also. connects to the CPU we're gonna see a bit later how I think maybe just in the slide how things are connected yeah so you still need to talk to your CPU of course yeah okay so there's this command that you can run and this produces some you know output which allows you to see how the GPUs are actually connected so I ran this on your our cluster there's HGPUs I guess you won't be able to get HGPUs but I guess if you could this is what it will look like and you see that between every pair of GPUs there's NV 18 you know connecting there's also these kind of network your cards and and other things okay um oh yeah so then network cards are basically what gives you the PCIe connection and and the CPUs so um okay so that's the hardware. so how do you use the hardware so NVidia has spent a lot of you know time developing really good software on top of uh their I guess really good hardware um and there's a collective communication library by NVidia called nickel um and this essentially translates the collective operations which we looked at before like all reduce um into low level packets that need to be sent between GPUs so this library actually does a lot of work because it allows the programmer just to operate the level of I need this tensor to appear on all the machines and it just happens okay um so you know just a little bit of what uh what happens is when you configure um setup nickel you bring up a bunch of um you know devices and there's some communication that happens to figure out the.

## 段落 9

**英文**: topology of the hardware it optimizes the path between the GPUs and then when you actually call these collective communication operations and the large cuda kernels to send and receive data okay so that's nickel it's provided as a as a library but nickel is still a bit too um low level to us because most of what we're doing is um you know in Python so there's a PyTorch has this torch distributed library which essentially provides a clean interface for these collective operations now from the comfort of your PyTorch program you can just write all gather into tensor on a tensor and it will appear on all the on the different ranks um it also has this nice useful feature that it supports multiple backends for different hardware so in particular nickel remember what's. for GPU but you can also run collective operations remember this is not GPU specific it's just for any set of um no devices so you can also do it for CPU using this back end called glue um so if you're debugging stuff on your laptop for your assignment for example you can use glue and still be able to run things without even a GPU um so anyway that that's another advantage of having these high-level primitives is that they're much more portable than having to you know only having something that's a very GPU specific um of course the performance is going to really depend on the hardware but at least logically you can make sure your code runs um PyTorch distributed also supports other high-level things like uh FSTP which talks we talked about last lecture but we're. not going to use this in this class because in the spirit of developing things from scratch um that's just what we're going to do okay so uh let's look at some examples of how torch side distributed collective operations work okay so there's this utility function i wrote um which can take a look at in the in the code if you want which takes a function and just um runs this uh basically it's a wrapper around um PyTorch multi processing where it just runs four processes that execute this function so when you're in this function you should think about it as there's actually world-sized number of uh processes running this identical function where the rank indexes from zero one all the way to world size minus one okay so right now i'm stepping through uh just one of the ranks um. uh because lectures are not parallel um and so generally what you do is you the first thing the process uh needs to initialize itself and you essentially the they need to kind of find each other right because your multi processor running a lot of processes they need to connect to a uh a single host so that they can you know figure know that each other exist um so know that this is not where all of the data goes the data goes through nickel but this is just for kind of coordination um and since we have a uh a GPU we can use nickel otherwise you would use glue um okay so after you set up um so now we're going to do some stuff there's this useful um function called a barrier which um basically waits for all of the processes in your process group to get to this uh point. right remember everything's running asynchronously um and in some cases you just want to have a synchronization point so barrier does that um the reason i put it here is actually sort of for trivial reasons because i want all these print statements to kind of be grouped together um but there's other reasons why you might want to use barrier it's we'll get to later so i'm going to for each of these um groups construct a tensor so the tensor is 0123 plus you know the rank um so i'm going to print out um for each rank before i'll reduce what does it look like okay so here's what it looks like um can people read that in the back yes okay good all right so on rank 0 is 0123 rank 11234 and so on and notice that because it's a sync in the orders it's just out of or in. whatever order it happens to print okay so each um rank has a different tensor and then then you all reduce so all reduce your passing the tensor you say i want to sum it um in this case i'm not going to do async but you can do async um to uh which is useful for overlapping communication and um in computation um and then you know afterwards what happens after all reduce as advertised basically for the first component you you add them up you get six this you get 10 14 and 18 okay so after i'll reduce the um basically this tensor gets overwritten with um the the corresponding um sum so it's very very kind of you know nice and simple to use okay um so so let's do reduce scatter so reduce scatter um i'm going to create an input um which is. has dimension you know world's eyes in which case this is for um and um i'm going to allocate an output because reduce scatter is not going to operate in in place this is just going to be a scalar um so before to the reduce scatter um this is you know what it looks like um i have my you know input as before output um you know happens to be zeroes but it could be any value um since i didn't initialize it and then after the reduce scatter um where passing the input and the output and i'm going to sum um then i get um essentially what happens is that for the first component i sum and that goes on rank zero for the second component i sum and it goes on rank one and so on okay so as you notice it is producing the same operation as all reduce except for the the output. is a sort of scattered across all the different um ranks okay so now let's do all gather so um i'm going to just directly use the output of reduce scatter which is um this um as the input and then i'm going to allocate an empty array for the the output um and then so before the all gather um the input is this and the output um i guess are just arbitrary values um and uh after i do the all gather um you know what happens is i get the all these uh tensors to to show up in on all the devices okay so this is just a kind of also an example uh hopefully now you're very convinced that reduce scattered plus all gather is just all reduce because i computed exactly the same quantity as i did for all reduce. okay questions is square yeah so the question is uh in reduce scattered do you keep track of which index goes to which GPU so by convention um the the dimensionality has to be then basically the worlds i mean it could be a general tensor but one of the dimensions is the world size and it just you know infers that um basically what you want to do is um the output is the let's say the um sorry um the input has to be basically world size and then it knows that uh basically the corresponding your computations go to each uh of the outputs yeah you have to be a bit careful with uh making sure the dimensionality align so you know going through this uh you know small examples can be helpful. is there another question okay so finally we're now in this um process that's uh running and when you're done you just you know clean up okay so um so so far we've talked about these collective operations um bit about how they're implemented you know PyTorch and it's uh nickel and then PyTorch um let's do a bit of you know benchmarking um in the spirit of what we did in um assignment uh or the first lecture or rather the second lecture um we're gonna focus on one node uh you know for now so let's do all reduce so i'm going to have this uh tensor of a hundred million elements um and a world size of four okay so um i'm going to just allocate a tensor um and generally as i think um as you hopefully are.

## 段落 10

**英文**: i can appreciate now that when you benchmark you have to really be careful to kind of clean your palette in some sense like you um in this case i'm going to warm up basically run the operation um once um and then synchronize and do barrier some of this is i think probably a bit defensive but but just to be but just to be safe so that all the kernels get you know uh loaded and whatever needs to be kind of computed yeah it's computed and then i'm going to start the clock all reduce and then synchronize again and and and stop the clock okay so um now i can look at the how long that took okay so if i scroll down here um i guess this is not that informative i should have printed in microseconds probably um it was uh i guess very quick um some number of seconds. um and now let's measure the bandwidth which is the number of gigabytes that were actually transferred in aggregate per second okay so the way we do that is we have to think about what actually gets transferred here so there's a tensor with that element size and the size of each element is um i guess this i think this is float um 32 so that we uh you know uh two i'm sorry four four bytes um and and um and so that's the size in bytes okay so now this is a little bit uh you know subtle so um how many bytes are actually sent or or transfer sent slash received um so each tensor sitting on a rank has size bytes okay and it needs to send it to world size minus one you know other your machines or not or ranks rather so there but there's a. factor of two so why is there a factor of two because you're doing it all reduce remember so you need to send all the distinct um you know elements into basically one place it needs to get uh summed up and then that needs to go back to everyone okay so uh a rank needs to kind of send the input out and then receive the output so that's why there's a there's a factor of two there and so the total duration is um the world size times the the actual duration that passed so i guess we're just kind of assuming that every we're you know if there's four processes that's sort of like four times as much walk lock time that happened and the bandwidth is just the bytes that over the duration okay so what do we get here um is about 277 gigabytes per second okay so you know i think um for. it each 100 um be above i think i claim that there was something like 900 gigabytes per second now of course as we know your mileage varies depending on the size of the tensors and the exact number of uh devices and the weather and what not the weather but uh but you know various factors so you're um your mileage might vary so it's always good to benchmark to see what is actually the number of uh gigabytes per second you're you're kidding okay so so reduce scatter is going to be very very similar so let's just go through this quickly so we create an input um which is world size times number of elements so each rank is going to have this um this the matrix um and and so we're going to warm up and then um start the clock reduce uh scatter um stop the clock. and then see how long it took well okay that's not helpful um and then let's look at the bandwidth so the number of cent bytes is no a factor of two here because in reduce scatter remember all you're doing is you're you're sending um you're your inputs into you know one place if you just think about uh reduce right all the elements just go into one place and that's it and scatter just means that different components of your tensor are going to different places but it's effectively it's it's like uh you know reduce okay so if you do the same calculation um you'll see that it's I guess I get 70 in this case um so I don't exactly know why it's exactly 70 as opposed to some other number um I guess one could speculate that all reduce generally there's more. traffic that you know happens and um all reduces are you know potentially more optimized I think that Nvidia hardware has this kind of sharp acceleration that actually does sort of um some of these computations in you know in the actual network um which says shade is also a factor of two but I don't know if that completely accounts for a difference here um there's a lot of stuff that happens in nickel that it's a little bit hard to kind of reason about the performance exactly since um benchmarking yeah question about the set heights and the core in the device is how else could actually yeah specifically it looks like the calculations like the uh it's a decent is the output for what about like the input to the revampions done. depending on how it gets the inputs to do the job. So the question is it seems like this is just the uh the bytes for the output and what about the input so to be clear I am assuming that the inputs just are already on the device so I'm not counting that time and just uh I'm just counting what needs to happen to do the reduce scatter. This is a reduced scatter operation. So do you need to launch it? So this function does reduce scatter so it's one operation.

## 段落 11

**英文**: I mean like we we call it uh twice in the theme uh yeah because you're doing it actually with it covered for time for the bytes and everything you can for. So you're saying that for all reduce um there were there's a 2x because you needed to reduce and then you needed to. you know uh spread out again um for reduce a scatter I mean it's just a name it's called reduce scatter but it's really just um a reduction. Okay and you can also see based on this that um if you do reduce scatter and you do all gather each of those is doesn't have the factor of two so when you add them up you get a factor of two which is another way to see that all it reduces um twice. Okay um and there's some references you can go read about how to benchmark and um these collective operations. Okay so let's now talk about the distributed um training uh piece. So our general approach here is going to be I'm going to walk through a bare bones implementation of each strategy on deep um MLPs essentially. So recall that you generally are in the regime where the MLPs are the compute bottleneck and transformers um not the attention so in some ways even though this is a very simple architecture it's fairly representative of the type of um you know workloads that you'll see. Okay so let's start with data parallelism um actually just one note is that data tensor and pipeline parallelism are you can just think about them as different ways of cutting up uh your your either your model or your your data which hopefully I'll depict visually here. Okay so in data parallelism um here's your model uh assuming it has four layers each layer of the MLP is just a matrix multiply where this is the dimension and so the data is also a matrix which is.

## 段落 12

**英文**: there's the batch dimension and then the hidden dimension and data parallel just cuts along the batch dimension into um you know essentially smaller um your pieces okay so now each rank is going to get a different slice of the data. So let's uh do an example here um so I'm going to generate some sample data so let's say I have a batch size of 128 hidden dimension of 1024 um and then just generate some random data okay so I have batch size by a number of dimension and I'm going to run this data parallel algorithm um or ddp. So um so here um I'm going to so I got past this this data there's a batch size and the dimension as as uh claimed from before now I uh divide the batch size by the world size so I get the local batch size and that's how many um. uh you know how big the batch size is on a given rank um and then I'm going to based on the rank just um figure out which um starting and the indices um of size local batch size I need to access and then get the corresponding data from that. So basically I'm just reaching in and grabbing some subset of the rows based on the and the rank. Okay so now I'm sending up the MLP here um and this is done very um sort of bare bones uh you could say so here I am creating the MLP parameters so each layer has essentially a matrix which is num dimension by num dimension and remember num dimension is 1024 um and I'm going to create the optimizer so remember this um uh function is running asynchronousy on all the different on each rank so each of the four. ranks is going to be running this with rank equals 0 1 2 3 and now I'm going to start training so for a number of steps I'm going to do a forward pass um through the layers um matrix multiply non-linearity matrix multi non-linearity there's four layers here gonna compute some loss I don't re-care what the losses is just made up some thing made up and I'm going to do the backward pass so so far this just looks like I'm implementing uh yeah SGD right um and that's the kind of the point the only difference is now to implement ddp is that you just like inject this line here which syncs synchronizes the gradients across workers so what you do is for each of the layers you call it all reduce um where you're averaging and the thing you're averaging is param dot grad. okay so it's just like you've kind of hijacked this um someone's SGD code and you're saying wait um I'm actually going to just mix all the gradients after um the backward pass and then after you do that you just um update the parameters as usual so from the SGD perspective it seems like nothing is happening I'm just running SGD but you know someone has just um you know mix my um gradients okay so um so I guess just print out some some things um so data parallel um I'm printing out the loss so one thing to note is that the the losses are different between all the different ranks because they have different datas um but after they'll reduce all the parameters are you know the same okay so this is a kind of your textbook application of all reduce in ml setup um yeah. so the question is how do you ensure if all of these uh processes are just running asynchronously how do you make sure that each of them is actually for example on the same step um this is because all reduce is a synchronization point it'll stop everyone and um and do the all reduce so you have to be careful because if one of your um you know ranks has a missing all reduce then it will just you know hang yeah yeah oh why does getting the initial parameters come on the the question is why does getting initial parameters depend on the rank they're the same the reason is just because I guess I don't um the code for this basically puts it on the the appropriate GPU okay any other questions. so ddp is something you implement in assignment two which maybe some of you have uh um you know look at or maybe not um it'll be done in the context of a transformer but this is sort of the sort of the most bare bones of version so you can see um very clearly what's happening okay so that's a ddp um losses are different across ranks um but the gradients are reduced to be all the same so therefore the parameters um are of all the ranks are the same right so actually you're doing world-sized number of scd runs but because they're synchronized they're doing the same thing so you can think about this as sort of an instantiation of you know analog of activation you know checkpointing where sometimes you just do extra compute because you don't want to store.

## 段落 13

**英文**: things in this case you know we could have for example a shipped optimizer state around but that would be a bad idea because you know it's much faster just to run the update the optimizer state then to actually move the the optimizer parameters around okay so last year I did try to do fsdp that but that was a sort of a a hair ball so I'm gonna skip that um and do a tensor parallel so here the the picture is we leave the data the same and now what we're gonna do is we're gonna cut the model along the hidden dimension okay so um so each rank is going to get every layer but it's gonna get only part of each layer and um what we're gonna end up doing is transfer all the data and the activations around um okay so so we're generating the same sample data. and let's look at tensor parallel um okay so so I have um the batch size and number of dimension as before and now I'm going to knock before I was cutting um batch size but now I'm cutting num dim so I have local num dim equals uh 124 uh uh 1 0 24 um divided by world size and that's 256 so each model essentially uh sorry each uh rank gets a part of the model which is one over the world size fraction of the parameters okay and remember the whole why we're doing parallelism at all is because the model um won't be able to fit into a single GPU so we're going to shard across multiple um GPUs um so so the parameter matrices are now um num dim by local num dim and now each rank is going to I'm only gonna implement the four four paths uh here um not the whole. training group um so I'm gonna start going through all the layers so um I'm gonna compute the activations first so this looks pretty normal except for remember the activations are actually batch size by local num dim rather than num dim because I only each rank only has a fraction of the activations now but now once I get the the activations um I need to you know communicate um and here I what I have to do is um I'm gonna allocate memory for all the activations so at this point everyone has a um as an x but that x um represents a different um part of the activations okay so now I'm going to just allocate um batch size I'm local num dim but world size number so basically each rank is going to basically have enough uh I'm gonna just get the um basically have world size number of. batch size by local num dim um you know matrices and then I'm going to do an all gather okay so um I'm going to send all the activations um and this I mean it's you know fairly uh simple so x remember is batch size times local num dim but x is different for every rank so when I do the all gather I'm going to put it in activations which has essentially a world size number of uh you know the same shape as x okay so now every um rank has the same activations now has the activations of all the models or the whole of the whole model okay and then just like just to concatenate them together to get you know x okay so now x is um now again uh batch size by um num dim okay and I you know repeat so as you can see this is um you know there's a quite a bit of communication that happens which is. why you know remember tatsu said that for tensor parallel you need pretty high um interconnects otherwise you'll be passing a lot of these activations you know around okay and then you do it for the next layer and the next layer and you get the idea um and it's just to pronounce on output so tensor parallel um let's see here um four of past produces activations uh basically the full size and everyone has the same um activations at the end okay so backward pass I'm going to skip because that's kind of a annoying uh to do um all right many questions about that yeah um so why is it hard to do the backward pass I don't think it's necessarily hard but in I guess in the constrained you know time and space it's it's um it's not hard it's just uh you know. requires a bit more work okay so now let's go to pipeline parallelism so in this case we're cutting the model by layers so all the ranks get all the data um and um all the ranks each rank gets all of one layer but they get different layers okay so sample the data and run this program of this function for all the the ranks um okay so here I'm going to uh figure out how many layers go in each um you know rank um which is two here so I have a four layer network I have two you know two ranks so each rank gets two of the layers um just like this picture actually and here I'm going to um just allocate the the parameters just for the layers um that I need okay so I'm going to do the forward pass um remember there's a uh further optimization that you. can you do which is um you know if you just you'll do it naively you get these uh pipeline bubbles that I talked to talked about um before um one way to sort of mitigate that is to break up the batch into micro batches so here I'm going to divide um this this batch into um you know uh batches of uh size 32 so four batches of size 32 um and then now the idea is that every rank is going to essentially wait for the previous rank to pass it to the activations it's going to apply those layers and then it's going to forward it to the next rank so starting at the base case we have rank equals zero that's uh just the data um so I'm just chunking the the data into a bunch of micro batches and going through each of micro batches um I um first I received the tensor so I'm using these. point to point primitives now um instead of the collective primitives um and I essentially you know basically receive the tensor x um and then I'm going to compute the layers that are assigned to this rank so in this case there's only two of them and then um I'm going to send it to the next rank um and then again send is a point point um you know operation and then the next uh batch I'm going to do the same thing so okay so I'm going to skip that okay so that's basically it so pipeline parallel at least the very naive version of it is relatively conceptually simple but it's not to mention last time um there's many things that are missing from this basic implementation um overlapping the communication and computation is. something we're not um you know doing it all here um for example receive and send our synchronous but you should really make them async and also the the order in which you do the forward um actually this is just a forward event that is not the backward but once you have the backward then um you have to figure out how to interleave the forward and the backward steps yeah like they are before you pass it and they are sorry for this so the question is is this is kind of like a vent driven programming where you're just like waiting for things to happen um and I think an event driven programming you're basically. write these hamburgers and then whenever stuff happens maybe get a mouse quick maybe you get you know a file ready event then a piece of code lines that's quite different I think from this style of coding where everything has to work in lockstep um it is true that you're sort of waiting for the previous um um you rank to send you the information but at least in this implementation there's no flexibility of where it's getting from it's not like it's waiting for arbitrary data to come from anywhere um I think there are ways to do asynchronous training which was you know I think quite popular you know 10 more than 10 years ago where um there it's more event driven where um you have a you know server that sends data and whenever the gradients are ready it just like.

## 段落 14

**英文**: uploads and then the gradients get accumulated and if workers die then you know that's um then you know that's sort of had a more robustly but in modern training um despite scaling up quite a bit you know everything seems to be kind of in a synchronous paradigm yeah so it is true that when I say the the workers are and the ranks are operating a synchronous that's just because it's different processes but you're still putting quite rigid synchronization on how everything is uh working in lockstep yeah so the question is how would you change this to overlap communication and computation so um for example when you send this there's no reason to just wait for the data to be sent you just basically fire off the send um remember the the. send actually gets happens on the GPU via some kernel launch so that's sort of independent um and it can just go and process another micro batch you know right away so um the way I think you do this is there's another uh function called i-send which is uh um uh a synchronous um actually this should be is uh synchronous um a synchronous which returns a handle and so you basically do all the the send and then at the end you basically wait for all the um the sends to complete and then uh for overlapping the um when you actually have the backwards step then you basically have to you know schedule that um in there yeah is that the entity for the send and receive the game would be a multiple send multiple. receives how does it know which one is which one so the question is if you have multiple sends and multiple receives how do you know which is which so here your specific the the tensor name doesn't matter it's just uh whatever a variable is there and what your specimen is the the source so if I'm out of note and I'm receiving then whatever the next message coming from that rank I'm just going to you know put in this uh x and move or continue executing if you want to do two sends from the same rank uh to the same destination so so i'm not quite sure about this but I think if you have two sends it's sort of put in a stream. so the order of the sends still is preserved it's just that other stuff can happen at the same time like you know you can send to um like I think if you have a pair in two sends then that order is preserved but um the order in which um you know you send some other rank is sending to another rank it can happen at any time yeah or how do you just get like this dot sign but then no one receiving it the moon just gets on there like so what happens if you send and no one's uh receives it I think it would just stall let me just wait because there's no yeah i mean yeah because i mean the the process could just be running and you don't know whether or it's just. you know i mean just code executing so you don't know if it's never gonna get there or if it's just gonna be a matter of time yeah so the question is what happens to the last rank so at the end the last rank has all the activation so that has basically the results of a full forward pass and then you know if you implement it at the back one pass then you would be actually now computing the gradient with respect to the loss and then you would uh go back down and send to from rank to rank minus one and so on okay I guess maybe um I was afraid I was gonna run out of time but it looks like I had actually half time maybe next year I should do the backward pass um okay so actually I'm gonna finish. quite early today but um so if you have any other questions you should ask um so so far we've gone through three simple examples of data tensor pipeline parallel um of course this is for simple MLPs um you would actually want to do this with your own um you know fancier model um like a transformer I did argue that at least at the the core ideas you can sort of understand through the MLP um I think the but of course when you want to train you want to train transformer not a deep MLP so you still have to implement the the full complexity um what's also missing is the communication and uh computation overlap which is not really handled very carefully here um and there is generally a more complex code with bookkeeping I you know encourage you to check. out like Megatron LL more um PyTorch's FSTP it gets uh you know fairly um hairy and one of the things that I think makes some of the bookkeeping at least for let's say FSTP and you'll be exposed to this in uh a a two a bit is that um if you want something that handles arbitrary architectures then you have to you know figure out the parameters and do a book a bunch of bookkeeping to and you know figure out whether layers are and and so on whereas in the MLP case it's just I've sort of made a decision that I'm going to split the model in this you know particularly simple way um one other thing I'll just mention as an aside is that all what we're doing in this course is as PyTorch but it is useful um to be aware of this whole other ecosystem around jacks and tpuse um which is actually. kind of uh nice in some way um and the idea here is um jacks has allows you just to define the model it define the sharding strategy and then the jacks compiler handles the rest so there's this um toolkit that we uh develop called a lavender based on jacks um and I'll just show you a snippet of um what it happens so this is fs tp and ten lines of code and uh basically you have a um you know uh model and then you just say shard with this particular I mean I don't expect you to kind of read this uh exactly but um basically you define which dimension you're going to shard by um and then you know that's it and similarly for tensor parallel um you're just saying I'm going to um shard um the model along the you know you can shard by the. on the head dimension um for uh for attention and also you can shard based on um the the model dimension so in some sense you know this gives you a sort of you know conceptual simplicity of what you're trying to do is you have this uh basically um um computation graph but it has these kind of dimensions you know the the model dimensions and bending dimension the attention sequence dimension and jacks allows you to basically uh just specify which dimensions you want to cut by and also define a mapping from that onto the actual uh tp use and then the jacks compiler magically just you know figures out how to compile that down into the the primitives that you know shuffle things around so this is much more higher level than um you're doing the the operating with a. collective communication um but you know we're sticking in with PyTorch um because it's it allows you to see a kind of underneath the hood what's actually um happening but if you're actually doing this in the in the real world um obviously you don't need uh you and you probably shouldn't implement all of this uh from scratch okay so that's the end of the uh jacks uh digression um so just just summarize we've um seen many ways uh to parallelize so far um and each of these ways of parallelizing is you can think about just like splitting either the model or the um data along some dimension either the data the batch dimension the width dimension or the depth dimension or the the context length dimension um we also see these this kind of recurring theme of you know.

## 段落 15

**英文**: recomputation you can um you can kind of recompute something um from scratch or you can store in memory and suffer the the data transfer cost or in now in the multi gpu multi node setting you can actually store on another gpu's memory and then you communicate which is you know even slower um so there's kind of these these trade-offs um you know here and you know often recomputation is actually um you know can be you know better but obviously you can you know you can't reprint you compute the whole thing and often you're either communication or memory limited um final word is that um it is the case that harbor is getting better so you might think that well maybe none of this is really necessary because in five years everything will fit in you know L1 HBM so this is not. going to be the case because um those might uh grow quite a bit um although there are still physical limits um we'll always be ending up with bigger models that sort of are at the limit of what the harbor can do so this hardcore cost structure um ever since system computer systems was a a thing has always been um with us and it will always be there okay that's all I have for you today so i'm can take any questions yeah so so the question is in data parallel um you're saying that even though the parameters are kind of synchronized there could be other things that depend on the the data like in batch norm um so. I don't actually know how you batch norms always kind of annoying um so I don't know exactly how you would do that off the top of my head um and I guess at least in the L1 world that doesn't go way show up um because layer norm is is is used um and as long as you initialize all the parameters and using the same random seed you'll be fine I mean there could be like non-determinism issues on on the GPU but hopefully those are you know minor uh yeah so the question is uh is this PyTorch have some nice cities as well kind of like what Jax offers is absolutely yeah so i mean PyTorch does have the fsdp library which you should absolutely use if you're not taking this class um which basically is a wrapper you define any model and it just. does fsdp on it um i think that now if you're asking how well it can more custom allow you to more do custom charting I think there are some things that are coming but it's not as I think as developed I mean I think there's sort of this I think spectrum between the Jax world where you sort of declare you define things and I think the Google infrastructure if you stay within the Jax the tp system is pretty well developed and but then if you look at kind of deep seek which is a kind of opposite end where you have um these GPUs with actually really bad inter you know connect which means that they have to go in and hack you know they actually go to the kind of nickel level and actually do a bunch of things which I don't quite understand to eek out the performance. whereas if you're writing a Jax you just a kind of from on high declare your model and then you know stuff stuff happens so it's kind of uh the ways that you leverage hardware I think really depends on what what ecosystem you're operating in yeah so the question is activation checkpointing what there is an API that's basically allows you to um I mean I guess in PyTorch and Jax to specify which parts you want to uh recompute because clearly you don't want to recompute you know everything and or nothing um probably every few layers probably right after like big map malls where um for example if you have let's say um map mall and then point wise um lawn inter unity I don't think you need to store like. two copies of um basically if you have two things where it's sort of trivial to uh come um get to then you might as well just store you know one version um yeah over there so the question is are GPUs can ever be replaced by a transformer specific hardware so you're seeing this in the inference space uh quite a bit already with um like Grockens Rebors have specialized hardware that can do um inference and also I guess training so we use those training um so basically those are hardwares um essentially give you just a lot more an on-ship memory I mean that's basically the the name of the game I think it's a Rebors has. like a huge um you know essentially effectively a n1 cache so you don't have to move things off and I think a lot of simplifications can happen because GPUs were there's a lot of baggage actually if you think about because um they were divine in an era where you had to do a lot branching and like you know various types of ad hoc computations which are not really needed in the deep learning regime so I think there are quite a few opportunities to um improve the hardware as well um I think there was a hand back there I know um I don't know if this is like the right question but I don't think you know but um in the context of the lecture it's basically a model um that's being trained in Van Gogh that's what automizing the circuit but I'm wondering if I know the. tape except we're talking about can you just make the best of the training model here's how well I think that we need training the cache um not just like writing but actually to kind of recapture everything about that we need to do. Yeah so the question is um can these techniques be used to essentially do continued um training um yeah absolutely so if you think about the the unit of what we're working on it is just doing gradient uh steps right so if you take a half train no checkpoint you can just continue doing what this is there's nothing specific about starting from scratch um here um there's a question like the models are we're presumably there is a physical technical reason can't make nodes much larger than they are. currently like what's the change that you're talking about? like so if you could just make GP nodes like it's another play guess biggest one people would do that so presumably there's a technical like a hardware reason that's not possible so what's the actual dance move? You can do like the raw specific hardware right? Yeah so the question is there are physical limits for sure for uh um you know for a GPU let me just go so the um so you can make GPUs obviously infinitely large um or infinitely dense I mean there's also like you know power issues uh you do get rid of all the the heat and um you know there's only so much kind of bandwidth I can um you know fit um so I don't know the the exact um you know details but at least in.

## 段落 16

**英文**: some of the cerebrus case I mean they um they sort of have this way of you know manufacturing you know basically the chips so that the um the memory is kind of on on on the chip so so I guess it's just a way of putting it on there and I think that there are obviously um you know trade-offs because it comes at a um cost of not having as much you know flexibility um but in but in general I think the way to maybe think about this more broadly is that you know GPUs were still developing kind of the CPU era where it's much more control focused I have code I'm executing that's the sort of first class citizen and then data needs to be moved to you know um execute the to to handle the code but um the big difference with deep learning workloads is that it's all. sort of data flow like the the computation graph if you look at these summer is like static you know from the beginning exactly all the computations that are going to be done until essentially the end of training right so using that knowledge you should be able to kind of lay out your computation in a much smarter way than having to deal with the the flexibility uncertainty over at hoc uh computation okay maybe a few more questions are now and uh yeah so the question is where the computation graph uh stored well the the code is um all the I mean all this code is running on on on this you know CPU um but when you call something like um love i-core function it it that needs run GPU then it launches kernels under the good and the. kernels are code that runs on the GPU um yeah I'm not sure of that so I guess maybe another answer is that the computation graph is more of a I guess a conceptual um you know i- it's not like there's a graph literally that's being you know uh I mean I guess there it sort sort of is but it's it's uh it's it's not like the graph gets put on the GPU that makes sense okay okay so the question is the communication primitives are they CPU or GPU so these collective operations are in some sense um abstract specification of what types of operations need to happen um which can happen if you remember um this part where it's. distributed um has different backgrounds so it could happen on GPU or happen on um CPU uh yeah so well the CPU sort of drives basically is the sort of the master still and then when you do a collective operation it calls the nickel library which um launches which is you know it's still CPU and then it launches some kernels add root data around yeah okay maybe this is a good place to end all right I will see you uh next Monday or Tuesday.

---

*共 16 个段落，154 句话*
